# MultiOmicsAnalysis
This repository contains all my work on various tasks and projects related to different omics data, including transcriptomics, epigenomics, spatial data, and their integrations.

1. FindingConservedMarkerGenes: This is a machine-learning based project applied to mouse scRNA-seq data.
This task aims to validate whether a given set of marker genes for a specific cell type can accurately classify cell types based on their expression using simple machine learning classifiers, such as decision tree classification. The primary goal is to determine if decision trees can effectively classify cell types across species, providing quantitative evidence that these marker genes are reliable. This analysis was conducted on scRNA-seq data from cross-species dorsal horn spinal cord and is part of a larger project in the Pfenning Lab. The objective was to statistically validate the accuracy of the marker genes identified by the lab. I contributed to this analysis by implementing the classifier and visualizing decision boundaries to confirm that the marker genes were conserved for each cell type, thus validating the lab's findings. The code for this analysis can be found here: https://github.com/pfenninglab/dorsalhorn_conserved_rna_atac_xen/blob/master/figure3_decision_tree_marker_genes_final.ipynb

2. Mouse_Spatial_scRNA-seq_data_analysis: This project aims to explore the clusters in Xenium spatial data of the mouse spinal cord and integrate it with available mouse scRNA-seq data. The objective is to identify marker genes for motor neurons and validate this information spatially. The explore_xenium_obj_final.ipynb notebook aims to identify Xenium clusters with high expression of known or potential motor neuron marker genes. The explore_russ_data_final.ipynb notebook focuses on identifying cell types in the scRNA-seq data that exhibit high expression of known or potential motor neuron marker genes. The data_integration_russ_xen_final.ipynb notebook integrates the spatial data with scRNA-seq data to find the Xenium clusters corresponding to motor neurons in mice, using the results obtained from the first two notebooks.

3. Mouse_scATAC-seq_Analysis: This project aims to explore scATAC-seq data from the ventral horn region of the mouse spinal cord. The primary goal is to determine if motor neurons can be distinctly separated from other cell types using putative marker genes.
